Attendees:  Jeffrey Altman, Harald Barth, Derrick Brashear, Todd DeSantis,
Jim Rees, Laura Stentz, Warren Yenson

 Agenda

* Updates on 1.4.1 release - 1.4.1. RC 9 will be put out tonight.  Need to
check on a patch for Mac OS Tiger.

*  Comments on release 1.5/1.6 plan from community - Jeff Altman sent the
proposal for rollout of client side byte range locking out to the
community.  The response to this proposal was that we should be more
aggressive in getting this functionality into the product.  (This response
was in contrast to the more conservative response  we got from the
community the last time we sent out a proposal to implement locks.).  We
will hold discussions on the newly created mailing list

*  Discussion of standardization of new RPCs and RPC extensions.  -  From
the standardization perspective, there are several implementations  - the
OpenAFS implementation, ARLA implementation, IBM implementation, RedHat
implementation.  The OpenAFS team would like to make sure that IBM, ARLA,
RedHat can participate and implement the new functionality if they wants
to.   Laura will let others in IBM know about the mailing lists associated
with these plans.

*  USENIX Funds

* Status on transfer - CMU has agreed to accept the OpenAFS funds collected
by USENIX.  Derrick will talk with Tom at CMU and have the USENIX  funds
mailed to the CMU account which contains the excess OpenAFS workshop
proceeds.

*  AFS Workshop at UMich

--  Date:  Week of June 19 or June 26.  Esther is working on rooms, costs,
hotels to determine the optimal week.  Preference is week of June 19.   We
need to also check on the Apple worldwide developers conference and make
sure there isn't overlap before we finalize the date.  Apple may be able to
work around our date if we notify them soon.  Elders' dinner may be
scheduled for Wed or Thurs of the conference week.  It was noted that, in
terms of location, the preference is at UMich campus (rather than at other
Ann Arbor locations).  Jeff and Jim will review the list of possible
locations.

Next Meeting:  March 28 @ 1:00
