Attendees:  Jeffrey Altman, Derrick Brashear, Todd DeSantis, Laura Stentz,
Warren Yenson.

Software Freedom Conservancy - One of our contributors has made us aware of
a new organization called the Software Freedom Conservancy (SFC).  This is
an organization which was founded in March 2006 by lawyers to promote open
source software development.  The SFC has filed to become a 501c3
organization, and they should attain this status in March 2007.  The SFC
currently has 6 small open source software projects.  The SFC promotes the
software commons license, and it requires that the SFC would own all new IP
if a project joins the Conservancy.  The primary advantages of joining the
SFC are:    insurance coverage to protect individuals/contributors involved
in an open source project, availability of a bank account, and 501c3 status
for accepting tax-free contributions.  The SFC is an organization that we
can follow and determine if they could add any value beyond what we can
achieve independently or via our current relationships with CMU and USENIX.

Development 1.4.1 - OpenAFS 1.4.1 was released earlier this month.  There
have been no major problems, but some minor fixes are still being
incorporated.   Derrick mentioned that it would be helpful to have an
Intel-based Mac machine for developing new releases.  Warren will see if
there is a machine available for donation at Morgan Stanley.  If not, we
may be able to purchase a machine if funds are available after the OpenAFS
Workshop.  We'll also need to purchase hardware to host our servers and
mail.

Development 1.5.1 - A release is coming soon--possibly this
evening--(except for MacOS).  1.5 does have byte range locking, but it does
not have mandatory locking on the file servers.  Jeff A. will restart the
discussions on standardization bboard on the locking topic to gain input
for future releases.

OpenAFS Workshop - The OpenAFS Workshop will be held June 12-16 at UMich.
The format of the Workshop is the same as last year:  AFS Tutorial on
Monday, Kerberos Tutorial on Tuesday, Presentations on  Wed-Fri (noon).
The call for papers closed on Friday, April 21.  We have more submissions
than times available.  (This represents an increase in submissions over
last year).  The committee will decide on which talks to accept by this
Friday (April 28).  If there is a topic that the Elders want to present or
if we'd like to hold a panel on Friday (June 16) to gather input on where
the community wants OpenAFS to go, we should decide that by April
28---prior to the talks being accepted.  Jeff A. will talk with a potential
keynote speaker to determine interest/availability.  If others would like
to recommend keynote speakers, please do so ASAP.

Next Meeting - Tuesday, May 30 - 1:00 Eastern Time
